---
layout: post
title: BlocJams
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
thumbnail-path: "https://d13yacurqjgara.cloudfront.net/users/3217/screenshots/2030966/blocjams_1x.png"
short-description: BlocJams for iOS is awesome!

---
When I sat down to put together my first app, I was very nervous. Thankfully, Bloc gave me a solid roadpath to work with and even though I wasn't sure of myself, the learning tools were reinforced with the code I was asked to piece together. Bloc Jams started out simple, I made several main pages for html and css. The idea for the app was to make a music-player somewhat like spotify. First things came first, I put in placeholder html on the main pages, then I included outside css sources to maintain my css throughout the application (such as normalize css). After putting together the first couple html pages with very basic html, I renovated the code to be more optimal through html5, which primarily involved switching the semantic elements. (i.e. `<section>` vs `<div>`). After the basic structure was available, I was able to begin building something that was a bit prettier and more palatable. I sewed the html and css together and made more specific elements selectors so I could direct the code more proficiently. I learned how to place blocks of code on the page and the different properties that dictated how and where it would sit and behave. The utilization of `clearfix` was especially new and interesting to me, but deadly useful when floating several objects on a page. Soon I had put together the landing(home) page, collection (where you could view the various music albums on Bloc Jams) page, and the album (where you could select which album you wanted to listen to) page. The basic elements were there, but nothing functioned quite yet. The landing page held all the app info, a few icons to pretty up the UX, and the general information about how to use the app. The collection page showed a few albums, and the album page listed the album information to whichever album was clicked. Since the app looked nice, it was time to add in some JavaScript to create usability. <br/>

To be honest, the JS part was one that I had been dreading, only because I felt as though I was still getting a hang of the basics. However, I perservered! I first made the icons at the bottom of the landing page animate. The icons were to appear after the user scrolled down the page, and they were to fade un and upward smoothly. Working with the DOM was somewhat intimidating, and I ran into several problems due to syntax errors and what I consider to just be part of the learning process. Through the frustration though, I was able to animate the icons through what Bloc's assignment asked me to do! I created a function which took each icon and changed the opacity and transformed it on the user's action of scrolling down the page. Later in this project, I would refactor the function to use jQuery and simplify the home-made function I had at first.<br/>

Once this feat was accomplished, I moved quickly and provided JS for other aspects of the DOM and constructed different functions to control different aspects of the app. I populated the collection page with albums via JS, and gave them all navigation-abilities so they weren't just placeholders. On the album page I made the songrows react when the user scrolled over them, a play/pause icon would appear next to each song title (over the song number) . I created a transparent player-bar for the user to control when perusing an album, the player-bar visuals showed it would have the ability to play or pause a song, skip to the previous or next song, show the user at what point the song was at (in seconds), and give the user the ability to adjust the volume. I factored these functions in using jQuery, which was another adventure entirely. I really appreciate jQuery, especially after being asked to create my own custom functions for the various needs of this app. Not that I hate customizing, just that I felt as though jQuery was a handy tool I could use to minimize the amount of code in my project, and that was very appealing to me. I refactored all the JS I had customized for the DOM with jQuery, which was a lot easier than I thought it was going to be. It was very soothing, minimizing the code to be more effective for this type of application. <br/>

The end result was a music app that allowed to you navigate to several listed albums, when you opened an album a list of songs was available and the user is able to play and pause the song of their choice. The player-bar allows the user to move smoothly between songs, select specific times of the song, and also the ability to adjust the volume. The user is able to navigate back to the landing page or the collection page from any part of the app, and the app loads pretty quickly. I had no idea I would be able to build something like that so quickly! I reviewed the assignments and the solutions to the application and I felt much more confidents in building more apps.