---
layout: post
title: Struggles with Javascript
---
It has been a harrowing journey for JavaScript and I. Logic-based languages have never been my strong suit, but I find them to be fun and fascinating. What I don’t particularly find fun is the constant struggle of “Oh geez, what did I do wrong now?” after learning new implementations and rules for JavaScript.</br> 
Reading instructions given to me for JavaScript assignments and applications was (and sometimes still is) overwhelming to me. I can look at JavaScript that’s written and describe what it does, but when I have to piece together my own I feel my brain try to implode. This is something I am still working on and striving for perfection in. </br> However! Even with all of the mistakes and barriers, I stop myself to realize how much I really have learned over the past three months, and congratulate myself on that! I know that learning JavaScript is something that I will probably always struggle with, and that is okay. Going from writing functions to count imaginary sheep to learning how to implement jQuery and Angular, I realize there are a lot of things out there I still haven’t encountered. That being said, the learning process is slowly becoming easier for me. I can feel myself making connections between things I previously didn’t understand well at all, which is a huge victory for my learning process.</br>
One thing that really showed me how much I was learning was replaying and rewatching previous coursework BLOC provided. Code School courses that I had a lot of trouble with the first time around were much easier to understand, and this wasn’t only because I was going through the material a second time, this was because I was more quickly understanding core concepts the lesson was trying to teach me. I could read through paragraphs of lesson-work and distinguish loops that were needed, functions’ and their “function” per-say, and more easily puzzle my way through presented problems and partial solutions.</br> 
I can now say that JavaScript isn’t only a struggle to me, it’s something I’m friends with. It’s something I enjoy implementing and working out, even if it’s not clear what I did wrong or what I should do to fix it. I understand the logic of FizzBuzz and various interview tricks and questions, and I’m always fascinated by the flexibility of the language itself. 