---
layout: post
title: My Bloc Experience
---
I started considering a coding bootcamp about two years ago. I finished my degree during the summer of 2015 while I was visiting my fiancé in Australia. I had one class to complete online and then I was to be given my dual Bachelor degrees in Illustration (Fine Arts) and German. I worked very hard to receive my two degrees, and I have always been very passionate about art and design. During the autumn, I applied for several jobs in UX and Design fields. I had a limited knowledge of HTML and CSS at the time, but I have always been someone who could learn quickly on their feet and I was confident that if given the chance, I would excel in a field that included some coding. All the jobs I applied to responded with a solid “We would like to see you have more programming experience, sorry”.</br>
That was when I knew I would have to re-enter the academic community and develop some new skills to add to my arsenal. At first I looked into face-to-face bootcamps. There were some promising programs, but they were all 8-15k per curriculum. Not to mention, the bootcamps required 8 hours of face-to-face classtime, 5 days a week. At the time I was locked into a lease in my college town, and none of the bootcamps were located there. The closest one was about an hour and a half away, and due to where I lived, that could prove very tricky in winter months if I chose to commute. Not to mention, having homework to do at home on top of the classtime…I was looking at a situation where I wouldn’t be able to have a job, would be spending a lot of money to commute, and another several thousand dollars on top of my debt  I already had with college. It seemed like a no-win situation and honestly freaked me out. </br>
That was when I decided to delve online and try to find a solution to the problem of time, money, and flexibility. BLOC was one of the first programs I found in my search. When I found the BLOC program, I was a bit skeptical at first. After reading several reviews and contacting student services, I found myself a lot more keen to try an online bootcamp. BLOC addressed all of the issues I was worried about; the cost of tuition was much more affordable than the other bootcamps I had looked at, the hours were flexible and at my pace, and I was provided a mentor to help my progress and learning process. I worked hard for a year to get a personal loan and signed up for BLOC in the autumn of 2016. The student advisor I spoke with remembered me over the year I reached out to him, which was something that was important to me, and provided me with opportunities for scholarships. I received a scholarship that was essential in helping me get into the program.</br>
So far, BLOC has been an incredible experience. My mentor is helpful, insightful, and patient. As a visual learner who isn’t used to logic-based languages (hey, I could tell you all about color theory, but JavaScript was the literal WORST to learn at first for me) it was important for me to communicate with someone non-judgmental who just wanted to help me learn. Through all the struggles of learning things for the first time, I feel as though I’ve really grown as a programmer and designer. The front-end part of my course has really tapped into the part of my brain that appreciates aesthetic and usability. I thoroughly enjoy the projects I’m learning to create, the work I have to do is frustrating at times but so satisfying to figure out and learn from after a struggle.</br>
Bloc has been an excellent opportunity for me, and I am looking forward to continuing my program and becoming the UX designer I want to be!